I'll be sitting down with an expert
whatever that means and they're going to
do whatever it is they think they can do
to make me into an entirely different
sort of creature than I am and so I'm
sort of morbidly curious about that yeah
the re-education of Jordan Peterson
coming to the airwav soon hey Dad hey
Mick so how are you doing what have you
been up to recently up and down um well
your mom and I and you of course well
let's go with what's down first we got
back from some funerals so that was
rough the same week we launched Peterson
Academy and that's up in a big way and
so that's gone great and that's quite
fun we have 12,000 students already and
people seem to be very interested in the
opportunity to learn which is exactly
what we were hoping for and the trailers
and the courses that you guys put
together look superb they exceeded my
expectations by a radical margin and so
um we've upped the ante on the higher
education front and that's fun and we've
be able to bring these to people at a
very
reasonable cost that's for sure so
that's very exciting and that was it's
all lovely to have all of that laid out
you know in the midst of this other
struggle so that's good oh well and then
of course there's today's news yes
today's news well uh that's what I
thought we should have a conversation
about you popped up in the news again oh
yes yes well you know it's been a while
so I guess it was time so do you want to
fill people in on the background uh yeah
so a brief overview you've been being
investigated by the board of
psychologists in Ontario for the last
how many years has it
been at least two four a long time off
and on since 2016 more on than off but
very intense for the last at least three
years yeah so the this investigation is
caused by people around the world filing
complaints against comments you've made
on social media about the government
trans issues and things you said on Joe
Rogan so you appealed I think the last
time we did an update you were appealing
to the Supreme Court of Canada to see if
you could avoid the mandated reeducation
that the College of psychologists wants
you to do and for everybody who doesn't
know that re-education means they're
assigning someone they choose to train
you on what to say on social media which
I find well more more than that even I
would say more than that they want to
retrain me with regard to how I conduct
myself as a publicly intellectual let's
say and so and that retraining is of
course at my expense with their deemed
expert they have someone who Styles
herself I believe a social media expert
whatever the hell that is and apparently
they believe that her intercession in my
Affairs will bring me to heal that's the
plan and so they've already sentenced me
to that we appealed that through the
well the court of appeal first in Canada
now at the Supreme Court and the Supreme
Court announced today that they rejected
my appeal and they want me to pay court
costs for the College of psychologists a
college is a board that licenses people
professionally after they've completed
their education just so everyone knows
and you have to stay in good standing
with the college there's a membership
fee generally and the colleges in
principle were there to ensure that the
public was well served by people with
professional designation but they've
become radically politicized just like
everything else in recent years and uh
the college obviously has members who
are none too pleased with me for being
right about things and uh now it's time
to be re-educated and just so people
know why what have been the accusations
well they take three forms you alluded
to them I've been very vociferous in my
objection to The Butchery of children
that goes and their sterilization which
I regard as a crime against humanity by
the way and which my fellow colleagues
on the psychological psychiatric and
medical front have proved themselves
none too courageous in opposing shall we
put it that way and uh I'm perfectly
happy about what I've said said on all
those fronts because I regard what's
happening with regards to so-called
gender affirming care as the worst
professional Scandal I would say since
World War II it's absolutely appalling
on all sides and it's certainly the case
that since I made the comments that were
objected to by the various complainants
none of whom by the way were clients of
mine or even new clients of mine uh
since I've made those comments most
European countries have radically backed
off with regards to their support for
gender affirming surgery after it's been
revealed that everything about it is a
lie and a scam and far worse than that
that just you know what would you say
brushes the surface and then I
criticized Justin Trudeau uh which is
something I'm actually pretty happy
about because he's a what would you say
he's an incompetent narcissist who's
made Canada a much worse place and he's
certainly not done with that yet um I
criticized some of the members of his uh
staff and I made some comments about
climate on The Joe Rogan podcast not the
last one but the one before that and
someone submitted the whole bloody
transcript of that to the college and
said that I don't know what am I doing
I'm doing something unethical by
pointing out the fact that the climate
scam is a Preposterous pack of Lies
generated by people whose fundamental
aim is nothing but power and control and
I'm also pretty happy about that and I
would also point out that since I did
that the and I'm not attributing this to
me it's part of the whole process by
which these things unfold the climate
apocalypse narrative is looking
increasingly shaky let's put it that way
um The Net Zero proposals look
economically Preposterous and
devastating Germany is
de-industrializing to its own detriment
the whole green scam is going to
disappear and I happen to be on the
Forefront of its of opposition to that
and I'm also perfectly happy about that
so it isn't obvious to me at all how
this re-education is going to go so as I
said I've already been sentenced to that
so yeah I'll be sitting down with an
expert whatever that means and they're
going to do whatever it is they think
they can do
to make me into an entirely different
sort of creature than I am and so I'm
sort of morbidly curious about that so
like who are they going to get to do
this
how are they going to proceed how are
they going to make it very difficult for
me to undertake that because that'll
certainly be one of the
tricks so that's the situation on to the
re-education
camp and I'm going to comply with it
because I could tell them to go to hell
I'm not that thrilled about being a
member of their Club anyways because I'm
pretty sickened by the disgraceful con
conduct of my fellow psychologists in
their absolute cowardice in failing to
oppose this abysmal treatment of young
people so I guess my next step is to
contact the college and tell them you
know on with the show so I don't even
exactly know how to do that
but I guess we figure that out or maybe
they'll be in contact with me and then
we have to negotiate exactly what
that'll look like and I have no idea
what that'll look like and I don't want
to give them any ideas so we'll see how
that
unfolds I I think the best case scenario
would be that Canada is still up in arms
about covid and you could do it over
zoom and then you could do it from
America so you won't get arrested in
Canada I'm I'm worried about how this is
going to
go yeah well being arrested is a low
probability event but having said that I
should also point out for those of you
who are watching and listening
especially in Canada you guys are in a
very awkward position like the first
thing I should say is there isn't really
much that the college can do to me
practically speaking okay so I don't
practice as a clinical psychologist
except in so far as I still have the
designation and in so far as I'm doing
psychological work let's say with my
lectures and seminars and so forth um
and so I have no income that's dependent
on that and as I said it's a club that
I'm increasingly uh appalled to be a
part of and the simplest thing for me to
do would be to tell them to take their
designation and um
and do what they want with it let's say
and wash my hands of it and so why am I
not doing that well some of it's just
pure stubbornness it's like I'm not
going to let a pack of half-witted
ideological Jack and apes steal
something from me under the guise of
moral intervention that I worked very
hard to attain that was difficult to
attain that was at one point very valid
and that I have served with distinction
and appropriately the entire time it's
absolutely incumbent on psychologists to
do what I've done which is to stand up
and say that there's no evidence
whatsoever for any of the claims that
are being made by the gender affirming
ideological monstrous sterilizers and
mutilators of children and if that
happens to be something that I'm being
gone after for it's like Bring It On You
sons of and we'll see how that
plays out so now in terms of personal
gain mostly that's just a annoing you
know I don't need to spend 30 hours
talking to someone about how I should
reform everything I know from first
fundamentals but I'm going to go through
with it why I'm a citizen of Canada
subject to its laws such as they are and
so I'll play the bloody charade out till
the
end now what should Canadians think
about this H there's a hard question cuz
you're between a rock and a hard place
now you can either assume that I'm the
right-wing scoundrel unable to control
my tongue that the left-wing radicals
who don't like me would like you to
presume and perhaps they're right and or
you can assume that the Canadian
judicial system and the regulatory
system and the legislative system to
some degree as well as the education
system and the Health Care system has
become so bloody corrupt that it can't
be trusted in its dealings with you as
individuals or in its dealings with
professionals such as myself and I
suppose if I was the typical Canadian it
would be a lot easier to presume that
I'm the unruly you know far-right
scoundrel that the leftists insist upon
than to make the terrible judgment that
The Jig Is up boys and girls and the
Supreme Court of Canada itself can no
longer be trusted to Bear the
responsibility to make the decisions
that are appropriate to its domain but
you know when the news came in today and
like it was quite a blow it made me
shaky and it made it difficult to stand
up and even though I fully expected it
it's exactly what I thought would happen
um why well it's no simple it's no easy
matter to be what would you say taken to
task by your regulatory board
hypothetically your fellow professionals
and then the Supreme Court itself what
am what am I claiming that I'm right and
they're wrong y That's what I'm claiming
should you believe
me I guess that's up to everybody who's
watching and
listening it's a terrible decision it's
a terrible thing it's much worse
for members of the Canadian public
especially professionals than it is for
me I can just take my privilege
elsewhere and at a moment's notice
I don't need this in any way I don't
even need the designation even though
they're not going to take it from me
without a
war
but
Canadians here's the situation that
confronts you
Canadians your professionals are now
mandated by law and their own regulatory
boards to lie to you that's all your
teachers that's all your engineers
that's all your lawyers that's all your
Physicians that's all your psychologists
all the people you depend on to tell you
the truth when crunch time comes can't
do
so
so I'm trying
to demonstrate that and it's expensive
and it's annoying and it's stressful had
a big scrap with your mom yesterday not
least because of the cumulative stress
you know and so there's a personal cost
to all of this it's very annoying and
you know I've scoured my
conscience I don't regret any of the
things I said you know and lots of my
friends took me to task because of the
harshness with which I said them let's
say how harsh should you be when you're
talking about the mutilation and
sterilization of confused children what
we're supposed to be nice about that I
don't think so let's be nice to the
local serial killer no I don't think so
let's be nice to the professionals who
are so cowardly that they aid and bet
what I think are crimes against humanity
performing surgical Transformations on
people who are too young to give
informed
consent if that's if objecting to that
costs me my license it's like
okay
so well what do you think about it I
think it's going to be 30 hours of
detention with Dolores
Umbridge yeah well that's
that's yeah when we'll see how to deal
with that yeah well the thing is they're
not trying to re-educate me it's
complete blood rubbish they know
perfectly well that a they're not going
to be able to hire anyone to do that I
can't imagine who they're going to hire
to do this to begin with who would even
agree to do that like it's
so I guess I could what would you
say put forward a
warning to whoever wants to do that
don't do it I think there are going to
be people lining up to retrain Jord
Peterson that that's why I'm warning
them it's like you know it's like you
have no idea what you're tangling with
like you have no idea what this is going
to do to your life don't do it don't do
it don't get involved in this don't come
and re-educate
me you think it's your moral duty it's
like your life will never be the same
and so you've been warned and I'm I'm
not making a physical threat I'm
just you don't want to get close to this
not unless
you're naive
Beyond
Redemption so
y um well 30 hours of detention yeah
well the thing is it's 30 hours the the
training course is indefinite and
there's no criteria by which it can be
determined to be successful except
theirs so okay so they're not going to
be able to retrain you cuz you're not
going to change the way you're thinking
on the points that they want you to
change so how many hours are you going
to do this if it's indefinite until
you're
retrained this is such a waste of time
till till whatever happens next happens
oh my go you know the goal the goal
isn't to retrain me the goal is to get
me to utter something approximating a
public apology and like
I don't I wouldn't go so far as to say
there are no circumstances under which I
would do that but there's no imaginable
circumstances under which I would do
that so I don't know how that's going to
go and so I suppose we'll play out the
charade until they decide that I'm
incorrigible and then they'll take my
license which is the goal anyways and
so you know and some people listening
might think well Dr Peterson don't you
think think you have anything to learn
it's like no doubt I have things to
learn but who thinking that well who the
hell that is the issue the the issue is
no the issue is so I asked the college
for example because I sent them a series
of questions all of which they responded
to with the phrase uh with a response
that was something like we don't have to
answer any of your godamn questions and
so I asked them okay well how do you
define social media expert like is that
some sort of professional designation by
what standard is a social media expert
accredited do they have 5 million
followers on X for example like what
makes them an expert they got a
certificate from some Dei organization
that deemed them expert it's like okay
well and let's say they are an expert
which they're
not so then what's your evidence that
retraining a recalcitrant psychologist
by exposing them to a social media
expert makes that psychologist a better
psychologist like is this person also an
expert psychologist like and are they an
expert psychologist like I'm an expert
psychologist because I doubt it and so
how what are they going to do to
demonstrate to me that I'm wrong Dr
Peterson you could have been nicer it's
like I'm not that interested in being
nice to butchering narcissistic
greedy child mutilating
Psychopaths I don't think being nice to
them is the right approach and I don't
regret what I said about the bloody
climate apocalypse mongers it's like go
to hell you pikers you think you're
going to save the world by making energy
too expensive for poor people to live
that's your theory that's a stupid
Theory and it's worse than stupid it's
evil so no
so mostly
in some part this is morbid curiosity
it's like okay the clown show continues
what happens next well I guess we're
going to find out so I'll indicate my
willingness to meet the expert and we'll
see what
happens now you know
well I I hope it's over Zoom for your
sake and you're out of Canada I do not
trust that country at
all yeah would be the safest option yeah
well there's there's nothing here that
involves at least at the moment anything
that would be arrestable let's say if
the Canadian government well if the
Canadian government passes Bill C63
which is unlikely but possible then I
have to re-evaluate the situation
because Bill C63 would turn Canada into
a nation run by the same people who took
Delight in informing on their neighbors
during covid
because they're setting up a whole
bureaucracy so that you can inform on
people for their social media posts and
then tangle them up in this terrible
procedure that would be akin to what
I've been tangled up with with the
college but for everyone because that's
how to make Society more peaceful and
less hateful so you know keeping my
options open it's possible possible well
it's happening like it's happening in
the UK that people are in trouble for
their social media posts right now now
in regards to the protests there are
people in jail so oh the UK is so close
to Canada yeah it's concerning to say
the least well I think that sums up
everything do you want to end on a more
positive note that's horrible I'm
worried for you I hope well I can end on
a bunch of positive notes I can end on a
bunch of positive notes it's like it's
very stressful and annoying and
expensive but I'm going to see it
through and I'm doing
that because because people should know
what's going on and should they trust me
that's up to them like I find it
Preposterous that my fellow citizens are
being placed in a position where they
have to decide to trust me or the
Supreme Court yeah like that's
ridiculous or me or the
universities why trust me well I guess
you have to listen to what I've been
saying and pay attention and make your
own decision um of course when these
sorts of things happen I have my periods
of doubt because it's quite the
phenomena to see this all phenomenon to
see this all unfold you know um on the
positive side I'm releasing a whole raft
of great content on the daily wire we
just got those announcements today the
gospel seminar 10-part series with great
minds um a series on Western
Civilization
that's three series one on depression
and anxiety one on marriage one on
developing a vision One release per week
till the end of the year so hooray
they're very professionally produced and
they look great I'm thrilled with what's
happened to Peterson Academy I mean
maybe we'll have 100,000 students in 3
or four months and we have huge plans to
bring the best lectures in the world to
everyone for a very low cost and I think
we can do that um I wrote two pieces of
music today with my collabor Ator this
morning after getting the news about the
Supreme Court and they're very twisted
and strange little musical pieces and I
could channel that energy into that
music and so that was entertaining and
you know meaningful and I sorted out my
differences with your mother and so you
know we're going to try to modify our
responses to being stressed to some
degree if we can manage that and I
imagine we can and there's lots of
remarkable things that are on the
horizon and who knows if this is bad
news like it's it's a blow and it's
going to be complex but you know
wherever there's a dragon there's a
treasure so and we've got pretty good
you and me and the rest of our crew
at seeing where the dragons are and
Finding the Treasure so we're going to
do that here too that's for sure great
right right so yeah I've been talking to
some of my partners in crime so to speak
about exactly how to go about this in
the most upward aiming and comical
possible Manner and we have some vicious
plans in the works let's put it that way
and so I would reiterate my statement
with regards to the college is that I
would be very careful in off offering up
sacrificial Lambs to the re-education
process because you're not going to be
able doing the people that you hire to
re-educate me or doing your college any
favors so let the games begin yeah well
good luck with everything and and that's
not supposed to be like you said a
physical threat that's that it it's
mostly that anybody get W getting
wrapped up in this on that side of
ideology is going to look back with
immense amounts of regret later like
they need to really think this through
right well that's for sure well I would
also say in general like being anywhere
near me in a complex way is not
something that anyone with any sense
should ever take on
lightly yes I can attest to that okay
let's start so we started off with
12,000 subscribers Peterson Academy
students yep we we are at
12,773 yep well we're crewing what about
700 a day e something like that yeah
very exciting yeah well and we're going
to devote our time and energy to making
that the best possible Enterprise that
we can manage so definitely yeah well
you know what would be fun I suppose
would be to just come down to Scottdale
and to work on our university project
and to spend time with your mom and to
play around with my music producer and
to work towards the release of my book
uh in November we who wrestle with God
which I'm very happy about and just to
step away from this whole bloody idiotic
m yes but I don't think that's the right
thing to do oh man it's such a waste of
time who wants to be part of their
snobby little Club anyway they certainly
don't want you to be a member of their
Club no well well it's bad it's bad
Michaela because like I don't know you
know it's hard to separate this out from
a a claim that could be narcissistic in
some sense but like this is really a
blow to free speech in Canada like
serious a serious blow I've had many
professionals reach out to me to tell me
how important this particular case is
and now the Supreme Court is BAS the
Supreme Court has basically decided that
the Charter of Rights is irrelevant in
relationship to whatever the
professional colleges what want to do so
let's let's rephrase let's reiterate
that the Supreme Court of Canada has now
decided that the Charter of Rights and
Freedoms the much vaunted Canadian
Charter of rights and freedoms is
essentially irrelevant when it comes to
how professionals will be governed by
their own professional organizations
which essentially means that all
regulated Professionals in Canada have
no freedom of
speech so that's where we're
at so that's terrible it's
terrible agreed well thank you for the
update I think I think that covers it
we'll keep everybody posted on uh what's
going to happen with this
re-education yeah the re-education of
Jordan Peterson coming to the airwav
soon okay thanks Dad y thanks kiddo
[Music]